# Marriage and the Resurrection
Title: Marriage and the Resurrection
Pastor: #AlanBarbee 
Passage: #Luke
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:27-40 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 27 </sup>There came to him some Sadducees, those who deny that there is a resurrection, <sup> 28 </sup>and they asked him a question, saying, “Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies, having a wife but no children, the man  must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. <sup> 29 </sup>Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and died without children. <sup> 30 </sup>And the second <sup> 31 </sup>and the third took her, and likewise all seven left no children and died. <sup> 32 </sup>Afterward the woman also died. <sup> 33 </sup>In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife will the woman be? For the seven had her as wife.” <sup> 34 </sup>And Jesus said to them,  “The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage, <sup> 35 </sup>but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and to the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage, <sup> 36 </sup>for they cannot die anymore, because they are equal to angels and are sons of God, being sons  of the resurrection. <sup> 37 </sup>But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed, in the passage about the bush, where he calls the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. <sup> 38 </sup>Now he is not God of the dead, but of the living, for all live to him.” <sup> 39 </sup>Then some of the scribes answered, “Teacher, you have spoken well.” <sup> 40 </sup>For they no longer dared to ask him any question.

Outline: 
- Question asked: 27-33
- Question answered
- no more questions

The truth of the resurrection changes all of our priorities

Prayer: #Proverbs
> [!bible]+ [Proverbs 2:1-10 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/20/2/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>My son, if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you, <sup> 2 </sup>making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understanding; <sup> 3 </sup>yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding, <sup> 4 </sup>if you seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures, <sup> 5 </sup>then you will understand the fear of the LORD and find the knowledge of God. <sup> 6 </sup>For the LORD gives wisdom; from his mouth come knowledge and understanding; <sup> 7 </sup>he stores up sound wisdom for the upright; he is a shield to those who walk in integrity, <sup> 8 </sup>guarding the paths of justice and watching over the way of his saints. <sup> 9 </sup>Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity, every good path; <sup> 10 </sup>for wisdom will come into your heart, and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul;

# Questions Asked
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:27-33 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 27 </sup>There came to him some Sadducees, those who deny that there is a resurrection, <sup> 28 </sup>and they asked him a question, saying, “Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies, having a wife but no children, the man  must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. <sup> 29 </sup>Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and died without children. <sup> 30 </sup>And the second <sup> 31 </sup>and the third took her, and likewise all seven left no children and died. <sup> 32 </sup>Afterward the woman also died. <sup> 33 </sup>In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife will the woman be? For the seven had her as wife.”

- We know from the beginning that the Sadducees are not serious
- Difference between Sadducees and Pharisees
> [!bible]+ [Acts 23:6-8 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/44/23/)
>  <sup> 6 </sup>Now when Paul perceived that one part were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, “Brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees. It is with respect to the hope and the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial.” <sup> 7 </sup>And when he had said this, a dissension arose between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the assembly was divided. <sup> 8 </sup>For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit, but the Pharisees acknowledge them all.

- The Sadducees - Torah alone
- The Pharisees - Torah and the oral interpretation
- A historical fact - Genesis 38
- A legal understanding
> [!bible]+ [Deuteronomy 25:5-9 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/5/25/)
>  <sup> 5 </sup>“If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies and has no son, the wife of the dead man shall not be married outside the family to a stranger. Her husband's brother shall go in to her and take her as his wife and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her. <sup> 6 </sup>And the first son whom she bears shall succeed to the name of his dead brother, that his name may not be blotted out of Israel. <sup> 7 </sup>And if the man does not wish to take his brother's wife, then his brother's wife shall go up to the gate to the elders and say, ‘My husband's brother refuses to perpetuate his brother's name in Israel; he will not perform the duty of a husband's brother to me.’ <sup> 8 </sup>Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him, and if he persists, saying, ‘I do not wish to take her,’ <sup> 9 </sup>then his brother's wife shall go up to him in the presence of the elders and pull his sandal off his foot and spit in his face. And she shall answer and say, ‘So shall it be done to the man who does not build up his brother's house.’

- The Law in Action
> [!bible]+ [Ruth 4:1-12 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/8/4/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Now Boaz had gone up to the gate and sat down there. And behold, the redeemer, of whom Boaz had spoken, came by. So Boaz said, “Turn aside, friend; sit down here.” And he turned aside and sat down. <sup> 2 </sup>And he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, “Sit down here.” So they sat down. <sup> 3 </sup>Then he said to the redeemer, “Naomi, who has come back from the country of Moab, is selling the parcel of land that belonged to our relative Elimelech. <sup> 4 </sup>So I thought I would tell you of it and say, ‘Buy it in the presence of those sitting here and in the presence of the elders of my people.’ If you will redeem it, redeem it. But if you  will not, tell me, that I may know, for there is no one besides you to redeem it, and I come after you.” And he said, “I will redeem it.” <sup> 5 </sup>Then Boaz said, “The day you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you also acquire Ruth  the Moabite, the widow of the dead, in order to perpetuate the name of the dead in his inheritance.” <sup> 6 </sup>Then the redeemer said, “I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I impair my own inheritance. Take my right of redemption yourself, for I cannot redeem it.” <sup> 7 </sup>Now this was the custom in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and exchanging: to confirm a transaction, the one drew off his sandal and gave it to the other, and this was the manner of attesting in Israel. <sup> 8 </sup>So when the redeemer said to Boaz, “Buy it for yourself,” he drew off his sandal. <sup> 9 </sup>Then Boaz said to the elders and all the people, “You are witnesses this day that I have bought from the hand of Naomi all that belonged to Elimelech and all that belonged to Chilion and to Mahlon. <sup> 10 </sup>Also Ruth the Moabite, the widow of Mahlon, I have bought to be my wife, to perpetuate the name of the dead in his inheritance, that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brothers and from the gate of his native place. You are witnesses this day.” <sup> 11 </sup>Then all the people who were at the gate and the elders said, “We are witnesses. May the LORD make the woman, who is coming into your house, like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the house of Israel. May you act worthily in Ephrathah and be renowned in Bethlehem, <sup> 12 </sup>and may your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, because of the offspring that the LORD will give you by this young woman.”

- The practicial significance and the theological significance
# Question Answered 
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:34-38 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 34 </sup>And Jesus said to them,  “The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage, <sup> 35 </sup>but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and to the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage, <sup> 36 </sup>for they cannot die anymore, because they are equal to angels and are sons of God, being sons  of the resurrection. <sup> 37 </sup>But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed, in the passage about the bush, where he calls the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. <sup> 38 </sup>Now he is not God of the dead, but of the living, for all live to him.”

- 34 - this age
- Marriage is a good thing (Genesis 2, Revelation 19, 21-22)
- Ordained by God. It should produce children (Genesis 1:27-31)
- There will be no need for marriage in heaven because no one will die
- Jesus foreshadowed what Paul will do on Mars Hill; he appealed to their source of authority
- Not past tense, but present tense
> [!bible]+ [Exodus 3:1-6 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/2/3/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law, Jethro, the priest of Midian, and he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness and came to Horeb, the mountain of God. <sup> 2 </sup>And the angel of the LORD appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. He looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed. <sup> 3 </sup>And Moses said, “I will turn aside to see this great sight, why the bush is not burned.” <sup> 4 </sup>When the LORD saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him out of the bush, “Moses, Moses!” And he said, “Here I am.” <sup> 5 </sup>Then he said, “Do not come near; take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground.” <sup> 6 </sup>And he said, “I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.” And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God.

- "I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob"
# No More Questions
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:39-40 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 39 </sup>Then some of the scribes answered, “Teacher, you have spoken well.” <sup> 40 </sup>For they no longer dared to ask him any question.

- No More Questions will be asked if Jesus in his last week
# Applications
## Heaven is not an extension of life on Earth
- We have no way to connect the ways of Heaven to what we know on Earth
- It's simply just going to be more than time on Earth 
- To get close, we need to read, pray, and meditate on what God has in store for us
## Keep marriage and family in it's proper place
- Sacred Marriage - Gary Thomas
- Marriage is a signpost pointing to our relationship with Christ as our bridegroom
- Focus on moving together and moving toward God
- We should not sacrifice our marriage on the alter of ministry
- Marriage should not be an excuse of not following God's calling 
## Place your ultimate hope in things that will not happen in this age
- Contentment is "finding delight in God's wise plan for my life, and humble allowing him to direct me in it."
- Learn how to grow in contentment
- The power of Christian Contentment - Andrews M. Davis
- He knows the end from the beginning, and we need to think of our end from the beginning
# Prayer Requests
- Elizabeth had test, wasn't as bad as she thought, has problem with vestibular things
- Jacob's grandpa fell and went to the ER
- Jacob's chiropractor has been really helpful
- 