# Header
Prayer: #revelation
> [!bible]+ [Revelation 21:1-8 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/66/21/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. <sup> 2 </sup>And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. <sup> 3 </sup>And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, “Behold, the dwelling place  of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people,  and God himself will be with them as their God. <sup> 4 </sup>He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.” <sup> 5 </sup>And he who was seated on the throne said, “Behold, I am making all things new.” Also he said, “Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.” <sup> 6 </sup>And he said to me, “It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment. <sup> 7 </sup>The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God and he will be my son. <sup> 8 </sup>But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.”

Title: A Perplexing Question
Pastor: #AlanBarbee 
Passage: #Luke
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:41-47 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 41 </sup>But he said to them, “How can they say that the Christ is David's son? <sup> 42 </sup>For David himself says in the Book of Psalms,  “‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand, <sup> 43 </sup>until I make your enemies your footstool.”’ <sup> 44 </sup>David thus calls him Lord, so how is he his son?” <sup> 45 </sup>And in the hearing of all the people he said to his disciples, <sup> 46 </sup>“Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces and the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts, <sup> 47 </sup>who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation.”


Outline
- A Perplexing question 
- An unacceptable example
Proper theology and proper living are inseparable from  one another

# A Perplexing Question 
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:41-44 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 41 </sup>But he said to them, “How can they say that the Christ is David's son? <sup> 42 </sup>For David himself says in the Book of Psalms,  “‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand, <sup> 43 </sup>until I make your enemies your footstool.”’ <sup> 44 </sup>David thus calls him Lord, so how is he his son?”
- There are no more questions posed to Jesus in the Temple area
- So Jesus asks a question with messianic overtones 
- There was general agreement that the Messiah would be a descendant of David:
	- 2 Samuel 7:12
	- Isaiah 9:6-7; 11:1-4
	- Jeremiah 30:3,9
	- Ezekiel 34:23

> [!bible]+ [2 Samuel 7:12 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/10/7/)
>  <sup> 12 </sup>When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom.

> [!bible]+ [Isaiah 9:6-7 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/23/9/)
>  <sup> 6 </sup>For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and the government shall be upon  his shoulder, and his name shall be called  Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. <sup> 7 </sup>Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end, on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the LORD of hosts will do this.

> [!bible]+ [Isaiah 11:1-4 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/23/11/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. <sup> 2 </sup>And the Spirit of the LORD shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might, the Spirit of knowledge and the fear of the LORD. <sup> 3 </sup>And his delight shall be in the fear of the LORD. He shall not judge by what his eyes see, or decide disputes by what his ears hear, <sup> 4 </sup>but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth; and he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall kill the wicked.

> [!bible]+ [Jeremiah 30:3 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/24/30/)
>  <sup> 3 </sup>For behold, days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will restore the fortunes of my people, Israel and Judah, says the LORD, and I will bring them back to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall take possession of it.”

> [!bible]+ [Jeremiah 30:9 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/24/30/)
>  <sup> 9 </sup>But they shall serve the LORD their God and David their king, whom I will raise up for them.

> [!bible]+ [Ezekiel 34:23 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/26/34/)
>  <sup> 23 </sup>And I will set up over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he shall feed them: he shall feed them and be their shepherd.

- We think we want to do something for God like David wanted, but God wants to do something so much better
- They thought Solomon was the answer to this prayer. But Jesus is that answer
- Solomon ended up causing a war
- The lineage would eventually be fulfilled to redeem David's blood
- The Christ is a term with messianic implications
	- Simeon - Luke 2:25-26
	- The demons - Luke 4:41
	- Peter - Luke 9:20
	- The two men in the road to Emmaus - Luke 24:26
	- The gathered disciples - Luke 24-26

> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:25-26 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 25 </sup>He said to them, “Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.” <sup> 26 </sup>And they were not able in the presence of the people to catch him in what he said, but marveling at his answer they became silent.

> [!bible]+ [Luke 4:41 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/4/)
>  <sup> 41 </sup>And demons also came out of many, crying, “You are the Son of God!” But he rebuked them and would not allow them to speak, because they knew that he was the Christ.

> [!bible]+ [Luke 9:20 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/9/)
>  <sup> 20 </sup>Then he said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” And Peter answered, “The Christ of God.”

> [!bible]+ [Luke 24:26 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/24/)
>  <sup> 26 </sup>Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory?”

- As he is asking this question, he is not stopping to tell them everything, but is using this messianic terms
- Even though this is their life, they don't understand
- Luke is good to give his readers the source of Jesus' reference

> [!bible]+ [Psalm 110:1 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/19/110/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>The LORD says to my Lord: “Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool.”

- The people understood the words, but not the meaning
- They assumed this meant military might and political expansion
- It is possible to have a sense of chronological whiplash since they existed in the generation they are in, and that we did not live through that

> [!bible]+ [Psalm 146:3-10 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/19/146/)
>  <sup> 3 </sup>Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man, in whom there is no salvation. <sup> 4 </sup>When his breath departs, he returns to the earth; on that very day his plans perish. <sup> 5 </sup>Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the LORD his God, <sup> 6 </sup>who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, who keeps faith forever; <sup> 7 </sup>who executes justice for the oppressed, who gives food to the hungry.  The LORD sets the prisoners free; <sup> 8 </sup>the LORD opens the eyes of the blind. The LORD lifts up those who are bowed down; the LORD loves the righteous. <sup> 9 </sup>The LORD watches over the sojourners; he upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the wicked he brings to ruin. <sup> 10 </sup>The LORD will reign forever, your God, O Zion, to all generations. Praise the LORD!

- God will rule forever, over every generation

# An Unacceptable Answer
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:45-47 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 45 </sup>And in the hearing of all the people he said to his disciples, <sup> 46 </sup>“Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces and the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts, <sup> 47 </sup>who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation.”

- Jesus used beware 4 times in Luke:
- Lists 6 characteristics of the scribes
1. They love noteeiety and acclaim
2. They love privileges 
3. They are greedy
4. They are insincere
5. 
