# Intro
Title: The Heart of the (Money) Matter
Verse:
> [!bible]+ [Luke 21:1-4 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/21/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Jesus  looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the offering box, <sup> 2 </sup>and he saw a poor widow put in two small copper coins. <sup> 3 </sup>And he said, “Truly, I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them. <sup> 4 </sup>For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all she had to live on.”

Prayer
> [!bible]+ [1 Timothy 6:1-10 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/54/6/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Let all who are under a yoke as bondservants  regard their own masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and the teaching may not be reviled. <sup> 2 </sup>Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they are brothers; rather they must serve all the better since those who benefit by their good service are believers and beloved. <b>False Teachers and True Contentment</b>  Teach and urge these things. <sup> 3 </sup>If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree with the sound  words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords with godliness, <sup> 4 </sup>he is puffed up with conceit and understands nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions, <sup> 5 </sup>and constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and deprived of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain. <sup> 6 </sup>But godliness with contentment is great gain, <sup> 7 </sup>for we brought nothing into the world, and  we cannot take anything out of the world. <sup> 8 </sup>But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content. <sup> 9 </sup>But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. <sup> 10 </sup>For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.


Overview:
1. Set the scene
2. People of the scene
3. Contrast that is provided
4. What do we need to do?

Big Idea:
God values the quality of our heart more than the quantity of our offering 

# Context/Intro
Will your supervisor care about your motivation?
- Not really, moreso the task getting it done 
- God does not feel that way
- God wants our heart, not our stuff

Jesus has returned to Jerusalem, and has been challenged, and victorious multiple times
Could have been right after 20 ending
Focused on what God truly cares about
Not focused on the money, but the faith

# The Scene
## The temple
Rich and poor would regularly give their offering in the Treasury
Many different offerings would be provided at different times of the year
Some would even announce the amount that was put in
## The money
She gave 2 lepta, which was worth 2/128 of a day's wages
About 1.28 in today's money

# The People
## The Widow
In a uniquely hard situation
## The Rich
Had the means
Also following the law
Jesus knew where they were coming from on what they gave
They gave to be seen, and to be praised
# Money in the Bible
God teaches us about money
God wrote the Bible for all kinds of ways to manage things He gives us
People will need guidance on what to give, and how to give correctly 
Challenge: What does God say about money, and how should I take care of it?
> [!bible]+ [Luke 6:20 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/6/)
>  <sup> 20 </sup>And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said: “Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.

> [!bible]+ [Luke 6:24 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/6/)
>  <sup> 24 </sup>“But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation.

> [!bible]+ [Luke 8:14 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/8/)
>  <sup> 14 </sup>And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature.

> [!bible]+ [Luke 12:12 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/12/)
>  <sup> 12 </sup>for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say.”

> [!bible]+ [Luke 16:13 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/16/)
>  <sup> 13 </sup>No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.”

> [!bible]+ [Luke 18:24 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/18/)
>  <sup> 24 </sup>Jesus, seeing that he had become sad, said,  “How difficult it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!

Scripture says that it can be challenging for those that are rich to follow the Lord
On the other side, he is not biased towards the poor, but that they need to be taken care of since they can be exploited

> [!bible]+ [Psalm 62:10 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/19/62/)
>  <sup> 10 </sup>Put no trust in extortion; set no vain hopes on robbery; if riches increase, set not your heart on them.

> [!bible]+ [Proverbs 23:4-5 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/20/23/)
>  <sup> 4 </sup>Do not toil to acquire wealth; be discerning enough to desist. <sup> 5 </sup>When your eyes light on it, it is gone, for suddenly it sprouts wings, flying like an eagle toward heaven.

--ecclesiasties4:10
> [!bible]+ [1 Timothy 6:6-10 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/54/6/)
>  <sup> 6 </sup>But godliness with contentment is great gain, <sup> 7 </sup>for we brought nothing into the world, and  we cannot take anything out of the world. <sup> 8 </sup>But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content. <sup> 9 </sup>But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. <sup> 10 </sup>For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.

> [!bible]+ [Proverbs 30:7-9 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/20/30/)
>  <sup> 7 </sup>Two things I ask of you; deny them not to me before I die: <sup> 8 </sup>Remove far from me falsehood and lying; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food that is needful for me, <sup> 9 </sup>lest I be full and deny you and say, “Who is the LORD?” or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God.

# Contrast of the Heart
The poor widow was commended
The rich were not
The outer conditions can be deceiving
- Poor circumstances can be seen as the disfavor of God
- Rich can be the favor of God

> [!bible]+ [Luke 21:3 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/21/)
>  <sup> 3 </sup>And he said, “Truly, I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them.

No, she didn't in quantity sense
But she did in her heart
Human approach: look at all the money we could have if people have plenty
Jesus: saw beyond and what was in the heart
God himself has praise for the widow, and indifference at best towards the rich

Being rich is not a sin, nor is being poor a virtue
It is possible to have the heart of the widow, but be rich
Also possible to be poor, and to have the heart of the rich

> [!bible]+ [Psalm 50:9-14 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/19/50/)
>  <sup> 9 </sup>I will not accept a bull from your house or goats from your folds. <sup> 10 </sup>For every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle on a thousand hills. <sup> 11 </sup>I know all the birds of the hills, and all that moves in the field is mine. <sup> 12 </sup>“If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and its fullness are mine. <sup> 13 </sup>Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? <sup> 14 </sup>Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving,  and perform your vows to the Most High,

God is saying, I'm not asking for the stuff, he has is all in endless amounts, but actually it is about our heart

> [!bible]+ [James 1:27 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/59/1/)
>  <sup> 27 </sup>Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained from the world.

The heart of the scribes: Self-focused
The heart of the widow: others-focused
