# Starting
Passage
> [!bible]+ [Luke 21:29-38 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/21/)
>  <sup> 29 </sup>And he told them a parable: “Look at the fig tree, and all the trees. <sup> 30 </sup>As soon as they come out in leaf, you see for yourselves and know that the summer is already near. <sup> 31 </sup>So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that the kingdom of God is near. <sup> 32 </sup>Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all has taken place. <sup> 33 </sup>Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. <sup> 34 </sup>“But watch yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a trap. <sup> 35 </sup>For it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth. <sup> 36 </sup>But stay awake at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are going to take place, and to stand before the Son of Man.” <sup> 37 </sup>And every day he was teaching in the temple, but at night he went out and lodged on the mount called Olivet. <sup> 38 </sup>And early in the morning all the people came to him in the temple to hear him.

Prayer
> [!bible]+ [2 Chronicles 5:11-14 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/14/5/)
>  <sup> 11 </sup>And when the priests came out of the Holy Place (for all the priests who were present had consecrated themselves, without regard to their divisions, <sup> 12 </sup>and all the Levitical singers, Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun, their sons and kinsmen, arrayed in fine linen, with cymbals, harps, and lyres, stood east of the altar with 120 priests who were trumpeters; <sup> 13 </sup>and it was the duty of the trumpeters and singers to make themselves heard in unison in praise and thanksgiving to the LORD), and when the song was raised, with trumpets and cymbals and other musical instruments, in praise to the LORD, “For he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever,”  the house, the house of the LORD, was filled with a cloud, <sup> 14 </sup>so that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD filled the house of God.

Pastor: #BenMuir

Title: Stay Awake

Big Idea: Keep you eye on the world and your heart on Jesus.

Layout: 
- Watch the world
- Watch yourselves
# Watch the World
> [!bible]+ [Luke 21:29-32 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/21/)
>  <sup> 29 </sup>And he told them a parable: “Look at the fig tree, and all the trees. <sup> 30 </sup>As soon as they come out in leaf, you see for yourselves and know that the summer is already near. <sup> 31 </sup>So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that the kingdom of God is near. <sup> 32 </sup>Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all has taken place.

- Our eyes perceive events that our minds interpret
- Men of Issachar
	- Men who had understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do
How do we watch the world?
- Be aware of big things going on in the world
- Be aware of the biases of your sources
- The Pourover (?)
- Interpret events in light of Scripture
"This generation will not pass away" (v.32)
- Key word: generation - γενεά
- Commentary: Jesus meant in the next 40 years - Jerusalem fell about 40 years after that fact
- Signs and wonders before the falling of Jerusalem
	- Foreshadowing of fall and renewal of Earth
v33 - Heaven and Earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away
- Jesus places himself equal with God
- Isaiah 40:8
- Some things are temporary, but the word of God is not
# Watch Yourselves 
> [!bible]+ [Luke 21:33-38 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/21/)
>  <sup> 33 </sup>Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. <sup> 34 </sup>“But watch yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a trap. <sup> 35 </sup>For it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth. <sup> 36 </sup>But stay awake at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are going to take place, and to stand before the Son of Man.” <sup> 37 </sup>And every day he was teaching in the temple, but at night he went out and lodged on the mount called Olivet. <sup> 38 </sup>And early in the morning all the people came to him in the temple to hear him.

> [!bible]+ [1 Peter 5:8 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/60/5/)
>  <sup> 8 </sup>Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour.

What might weigh down our hearts?
- Dissipation - κραιπάλη or ἁρπάζω
	- Uncontrol, disconnection from world around you
- Drunkenness
- Cares of this life
Don't let anything control you or dull your perception of the world
What dulls your perception of this world?

At its core, Dissipation and drunkenness are a self-focus that leads to death
> [!bible]+ [Proverbs 23:20-21 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/20/23/)
>  <sup> 20 </sup>Be not among drunkards  or among gluttonous eaters of meat, <sup> 21 </sup>for the drunkard and the glutton will come to poverty, and slumber will clothe them with rags.

"Cares of this life"
- That day will come upon you suddenly like a trap
- Anything that takes tou to use and your heart off of Jesus
> [!bible]+ [Hebrews 12:1-3 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/58/12/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, <sup> 2 </sup>looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. <sup> 3 </sup>Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or fainthearted.

Jesus paved the way for us 
> [!bible]+ [2 Peter 3:11-13 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/61/3/)
>  <sup> 11 </sup>Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, <sup> 12 </sup>waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn! <sup> 13 </sup>But according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells.

We are not alone in it all 