# Header
Takeaway: At advent, we celebrate the Shepard who secured our salvation

Passage
> [!bible]+ [Micah 5:1-5 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/33/5/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Now muster your troops, O daughter  of troops; siege is laid against us; with a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek. <sup> 2 </sup>But you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. <sup> 3 </sup>Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth; then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. <sup> 4 </sup>And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the LORD, in the majesty of the name of the LORD his God. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth. <sup> 5 </sup>And he shall be their peace.  When the Assyrian comes into our land and treads in our palaces, then we will raise against him seven shepherds and eight princes of men;

> [!bible]+ [John 10:11-15 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/43/10/)
>  <sup> 11 </sup>I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. <sup> 12 </sup>He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. <sup> 13 </sup>He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. <sup> 14 </sup>I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me, <sup> 15 </sup>just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep.

Structure:
- There is no time for a Shepherd
- This Shepherd will be unlike any other Shepherd 

# This is no Time for a Shepherd
- A rancher leads from the front, a Shepherd leads from the rear
- The book of Micah is written during a time of turmoil and fear

> [!bible]+ [Micah 1:6-7 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/33/1/)
>  <sup> 6 </sup>Therefore I will make Samaria a heap in the open country, a place for planting vineyards, and I will pour down her stones into the valley and uncover her foundations. <sup> 7 </sup>All her carved images shall be beaten to pieces, all her wages shall be burned with fire, and all her idols I will lay waste, for from the fee of a prostitute she gathered them, and to the fee of a prostitute they shall return.

God gave an assurance of judgement
> [!bible]+ [Micah 2:3-5 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/33/2/)
>  <sup> 3 </sup>Therefore thus says the LORD: behold, against this family I am devising disaster,  from which you cannot remove your necks, and you shall not walk haughtily, for it will be a time of disaster. <sup> 4 </sup>In that day they shall take up a taunt song against you and moan bitterly, and say, “We are utterly ruined; he changes the portion of my people; how he removes it from me! To an apostate he allots our fields.” <sup> 5 </sup>Therefore you will have none to cast the line by lot in the assembly of the LORD.

God still makes an avenue of escape
> [!bible]+ [Micah 5:1-3 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/33/5/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Now muster your troops, O daughter  of troops; siege is laid against us; with a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek. <sup> 2 </sup>But you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. <sup> 3 </sup>Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth; then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel.

Even though there is judgement, he is giving salvation, but it is not coming yet

It is coming from an unknown source, that most would cast aside

What do we know about Bethlehem?
- Smallest and most insignificant of villages
- Best known because of Rachel, Ruth, and David
	- Rachel was buried near Ephraim, mentioned twice, and the wife that Jacob loved
	- End of Ruth, mentioned as where Ruth's kids are born, as Obed, and eventually grandfather of David

Two unlikely sources of Judah's deliverance:
- First is the insignificant village
- Second is the insignificant shepherd
- Is this is promise or a letdown to people who are in despair?

God's promise of deliverance is a picture of the Gospel
- This is how God brings his promises about

God judges unfaithfulness. He demands perfection. But even after he has announced his judgement, he makes a way of escape

God demands perfection
> [!bible]+ [Matthew 5:48 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/40/5/)
>  <sup> 48 </sup>You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.

Jesus is our perfection
> [!bible]+ [Hebrews 4:15 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/58/4/)
>  <sup> 15 </sup>For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.

# This shepherd will be unlike any other Shepherd
> [!bible]+ [Micah 5:4-5 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/33/5/)
>  <sup> 4 </sup>And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the LORD, in the majesty of the name of the LORD his God. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth. <sup> 5 </sup>And he shall be their peace.  When the Assyrian comes into our land and treads in our palaces, then we will raise against him seven shepherds and eight princes of men;

This shepherd will be greater than Davis

He will shepherd God's flock in the strength of the Lord. His first priority will be God rather than Judah
> [!bible]+ [Micah 5:2 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/33/5/)
>  <sup> 2 </sup>But you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days.

He will shepherd God's flock in the name of the Lord.

He will be great to the ends of the Earth

> [!bible]+ [John 10:11-15 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/43/10/)
>  <sup> 11 </sup>I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. <sup> 12 </sup>He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. <sup> 13 </sup>He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. <sup> 14 </sup>I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me, <sup> 15 </sup>just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep.

The human good shepherd will do every thing he can to stay alive and protect the sheep

But the hired hand will flee when conditions turn against him

Negative example of a shepherd
> [!bible]+ [Ezekiel 34:1-31 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/26/34/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>The word of the LORD came to me: <sup> 2 </sup>“Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel; prophesy, and say to them, even to the shepherds, Thus says the Lord GOD: Ah, shepherds of Israel who have been feeding yourselves! Should not shepherds feed the sheep? <sup> 3 </sup>You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed the sheep. <sup> 4 </sup>The weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the injured you have not bound up, the strayed you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought, and with force and harshness you have ruled them. <sup> 5 </sup>So they were scattered, because there was no shepherd, and they became food for all the wild beasts. My sheep were scattered; <sup> 6 </sup>they wandered over all the mountains and on every high hill. My sheep were scattered over all the face of the earth, with none to search or seek for them. <sup> 7 </sup>“Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD: <sup> 8 </sup>As I live, declares the Lord GOD, surely because my sheep have become a prey, and my sheep have become food for all the wild beasts, since there was no shepherd, and because my shepherds have not searched for my sheep, but the shepherds have fed themselves, and have not fed my sheep, <sup> 9 </sup>therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD: <sup> 10 </sup>Thus says the Lord GOD, Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will require my sheep at their hand and put a stop to their feeding the sheep. No longer shall the shepherds feed themselves. I will rescue my sheep from their mouths, that they may not be food for them. <sup> 11 </sup>“For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I, I myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out. <sup> 12 </sup>As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is among his sheep that have been scattered, so will I seek out my sheep, and I will rescue them from all places where they have been scattered on a day of clouds and thick darkness. <sup> 13 </sup>And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries, and will bring them into their own land. And I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the ravines, and in all the inhabited places of the country. <sup> 14 </sup>I will feed them with good pasture, and on the mountain heights of Israel shall be their grazing land. There they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on rich pasture they shall feed on the mountains of Israel. <sup> 15 </sup>I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord GOD. <sup> 16 </sup>I will seek the lost, and I will bring back the strayed, and I will bind up the injured, and I will strengthen the weak, and the fat and the strong I will destroy.  I will feed them in justice. <sup> 17 </sup>“As for you, my flock, thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I judge between sheep and sheep, between rams and male goats. <sup> 18 </sup>Is it not enough for you to feed on the good pasture, that you must tread down with your feet the rest of your pasture; and to drink of clear water, that you must muddy the rest of the water with your feet? <sup> 19 </sup>And must my sheep eat what you have trodden with your feet, and drink what you have muddied with your feet? <sup> 20 </sup>“Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD to them: Behold, I, I myself will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep. <sup> 21 </sup>Because you push with side and shoulder, and thrust at all the weak with your horns, till you have scattered them abroad, <sup> 22 </sup>I will rescue  my flock; they shall no longer be a prey. And I will judge between sheep and sheep. <sup> 23 </sup>And I will set up over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he shall feed them: he shall feed them and be their shepherd. <sup> 24 </sup>And I, the LORD, will be their God, and my servant David shall be prince among them. I am the LORD; I have spoken. <sup> 25 </sup>“I will make with them a covenant of peace and banish wild beasts from the land, so that they may dwell securely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods. <sup> 26 </sup>And I will make them and the places all around my hill a blessing, and I will send down the showers in their season; they shall be showers of blessing. <sup> 27 </sup>And the trees of the field shall yield their fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase, and they shall be secure in their land. And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I break the bars of their yoke, and deliver them from the hand of those who enslaved them. <sup> 28 </sup>They shall no more be a prey to the nations, nor shall the beasts of the land devour them. They shall dwell securely, and none shall make them afraid. <sup> 29 </sup>And I will provide for them renowned plantations so that they shall no more be consumed with hunger in the land, and no longer suffer the reproach of the nations. <sup> 30 </sup>And they shall know that I am the LORD their God with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, declares the Lord GOD. <sup> 31 </sup>And you are my sheep, human sheep of my pasture, and I am your God, declares the Lord GOD.”

Positive example of a shepherd
> [!bible]+ [1 Samuel 17:33-37 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/9/17/)
>  <sup> 33 </sup>And Saul said to David, “You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, for you are but a youth, and he has been a man of war from his youth.” <sup> 34 </sup>But David said to Saul, “Your servant used to keep sheep for his father. And when there came a lion, or a bear, and took a lamb from the flock, <sup> 35 </sup>I went after him and struck him and delivered it out of his mouth. And if he arose against me, I caught him by his beard and struck him and killed him. <sup> 36 </sup>Your servant has struck down both lions and bears, and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be like one of them, for he has defied the armies of the living God.” <sup> 37 </sup>And David said, “The LORD who delivered me from the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine.” And Saul said to David, “Go, and the LORD be with you!”

The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep because there is no other way or person to secure their eternal security

This is a relationship of intimacy

This is a relationship of assurance

This is a relationship of dependency

Micah and John
- Shepherd is both universal and personal
- Shepherd stands up and lays down to protect his sheep
- Shepherd honors God's ownership
- Shepherd provides safety and security for His sheep

# Would you rather be led or Driven?
All have sinned
> [!bible]+ [Romans 3:23 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/45/3/)
>  <sup> 23 </sup>for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,

Wages of sin is death
> [!bible]+ [Romans 6:23 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/45/6/)
>  <sup> 23 </sup>For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

While we were still sinners Christ died for us
> [!bible]+ [Romans 5:8 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/45/5/)
>  <sup> 8 </sup>but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.

We must confess with our mouths that Jesus is Lord and believe in our hearts that God raised him from the dead 
> [!bible]+ [Romans 10:9-10 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/45/10/)
>  <sup> 9 </sup>because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. <sup> 10 </sup>For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved.

