# Info
Pastor: #AlanBarbee 
Title: The Trinity in Advent
Passage
> [!bible]+ [Galatians 4:4-7 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/48/4/)
>  <sup> 4 </sup>But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law, <sup> 5 </sup>to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. <sup> 6 </sup>And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, “Abba! Father!” <sup> 7 </sup>So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God.

> [!bible]+ [Galatians 3:23-29 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/48/3/)
>  <sup> 23 </sup>Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. <sup> 24 </sup>So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith. <sup> 25 </sup>But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian, <sup> 26 </sup>for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. <sup> 27 </sup>For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. <sup> 28 </sup>There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave  nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. <sup> 29 </sup>And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise.

Layout
- God sent his son
- Jesus redeemed his people
- The Spirit confirms our adoption

Main Idea: At Advent, we celebrate God's work for us in Jesus and through the Holy Spirit
# God sent His Son - 4:4
> [!bible]+ [Galatians 4:4 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/48/4/)
>  <sup> 4 </sup>But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law,

Jesus always give an overflowing amount

NT uses two terms for time:
- Chronos (chronological time)
- Kairos (special time)

Which one does he use here? Why?
- Used Chronos
- Not sure why, but could have been that no one knew when Christ was coming, after the time in which He was prophesied, and 400 years after Malachi and time without God speaking

"God sent his Son" - the most concise summary of the Gospel

Jesus was born as any other baby has been born

Jesus was born into a particular set of circumstances
# Jesus redeemed his people - 4:5
> [!bible]+ [Galatians 4:5 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/48/4/)
>  <sup> 5 </sup>to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons.

To redeem something is to repurchase it, usually at significant cost
> [!bible]+ [Galatians 3:13 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/48/3/)
>  <sup> 13 </sup>Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us — for it is written, “Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree” —

Adoption is a joyous event

Adoption is a solemn event

# The Spirit confirms our adoption - 6-7
> [!bible]+ [Galatians 4:6-7 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/48/4/)
>  <sup> 6 </sup>And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, “Abba! Father!” <sup> 7 </sup>So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God.

The phrase "Abba Father" is a term of:
- Intimacy - Mark 14:36
- Assurance - Romans 8:15
- Dependent assurance - Galatians 4:6

# He is a redeeming God
Are you willing to give up everything for the kingdom of God
> [!bible]+ [Matthew 13:44 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/40/13/)
>  <sup> 44 </sup>“The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and covered up. Then in his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field.

Are you willing to give up your life for the kingdom of God?
> [!bible]+ [Isaiah 6:8 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/23/6/)
>  <sup> 8 </sup>And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, “Whom shall I send, and who will go for us?” Then I said, “Here I am! Send me.”

We imitate his redeeming work in our lives by going as he was sent
> [!bible]+ [John 20:19-21 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/43/20/)
>  <sup> 19 </sup>On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews,  Jesus came and stood among them and said to them,  “Peace be with you.” <sup> 20 </sup>When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. <sup> 21 </sup>Jesus said to them again, “Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you.”

When we come to Christ, we say yes. But we don't always know what we are saying yes to
# He is a confirming God
We cannot give away what we do not have ourselves

