Title: A Light in the Darkness
Pastor: #BenMuir 
Prayer
> [!bible]+ [Revelation 5:1-14 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/66/5/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Then I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll written within and on the back, sealed with seven seals. <sup> 2 </sup>And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, “Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals?” <sup> 3 </sup>And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look into it, <sup> 4 </sup>and I began to weep loudly because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to look into it. <sup> 5 </sup>And one of the elders said to me, “Weep no more; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals.” <sup> 6 </sup>And between the throne and the four living creatures and among the elders I saw a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. <sup> 7 </sup>And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne. <sup> 8 </sup>And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each holding a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. <sup> 9 </sup>And they sang a new song, saying, “Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation, <sup> 10 </sup>and you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth.” <sup> 11 </sup>Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands, <sup> 12 </sup>saying with a loud voice, “Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing!” <sup> 13 </sup>And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them, saying, “To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever!” <sup> 14 </sup>And the four living creatures said, “Amen!” and the elders fell down and worshiped.

Passage
> [!bible]+ [Isaiah 9:2 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/23/9/)
>  <sup> 2 </sup>The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light; those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shone.

--john1:
Outline:
- 

Big Idea: Jesus entered our darkness and brought light
# Darkness
In the physical, just an absence of light
Where darkness is, light is gone; where light is, darkness is quelled

> [!bible]+ [Ephesians 5:8-11 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/49/5/)
>  <sup> 8 </sup>for at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light <sup> 9 </sup>(for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true), <sup> 10 </sup>and try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. <sup> 11 </sup>Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but ==instead expose them==.

- Darkness conceales and constricts
- Someone that is unsaved is in darkness, accrd. to eph
> [!bible]+ [Ephesians 6:10-12 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/49/6/)
>  <sup> 10 </sup>Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. <sup> 11 </sup>Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. <sup> 12 </sup>For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present ==darkness==, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.

- Satan works in the darkness
	- Works to pull us back to the darkness from which we came
- Born into a chasm between God and us
- We still experience darkness, despite living in the life
> [!bible]+ [2 Corinthians 4:3-4 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/47/4/)
>  <sup> 3 </sup>And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. <sup> 4 </sup>In their case the god of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God.

- Good works in the light, Satan works in the darkness, God is sovereign over all
# Light
- Both a wave and a particle.
- Cannot be explained as just one or the other
- Primary tool for communicating and interacting with our world
- Travels 186,000 miles a second

> [!bible]+ [John 1:1-5 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/43/1/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. <sup> 2 </sup>He was in the beginning with God. <sup> 3 </sup>All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. <sup> 4 </sup>In him was life,  and the life was the light of men. <sup> 5 </sup>The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.

- Used 9 times in John 1 to describe Jesus
## Light Reveals
- When light meets far