Speaker: Alan Barber
Passage:
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:1-19 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>One day, as Jesus  was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came up <sup> 2 </sup>and said to him, “Tell us by what authority you do these things, or who it is that gave you this authority.” <sup> 3 </sup>He answered them, “I also will ask you a question. Now tell me, <sup> 4 </sup>was the baptism of John from heaven or from man?” <sup> 5 </sup>And they discussed it with one another, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say, ‘Why did you not believe him?’ <sup> 6 </sup>But if we say, ‘From man,’ all the people will stone us to death, for they are convinced that John was a prophet.” <sup> 7 </sup>So they answered that they did not know where it came from. <sup> 8 </sup>And Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.” <sup> 9 </sup>And he began to tell the people this parable: “A man planted a vineyard and let it out to tenants and went into another country for a long while. <sup> 10 </sup>When the time came, he sent a servant  to the tenants, so that they would give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. But the tenants beat him and sent him away empty-handed. <sup> 11 </sup>And he sent another servant. But they also beat and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty-handed. <sup> 12 </sup>And he sent yet a third. This one also they wounded and cast out. <sup> 13 </sup>Then the owner of the vineyard said, ‘What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps they will respect him.’ <sup> 14 </sup>But when the tenants saw him, they said to themselves, ‘This is the heir. Let us kill him, so that the inheritance may be ours.’ <sup> 15 </sup>And they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then will the owner of the vineyard do to them? <sup> 16 </sup>He will come and destroy those tenants and give the vineyard to others.” When they heard this, they said, “Surely not!” <sup> 17 </sup>But he looked directly at them and said, “What then is this that is written:  “‘The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone’? <sup> 18 </sup>Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, and when it falls on anyone, it will crush him.” <sup> 19 </sup>The scribes and the chief priests sought to lay hands on him at that very hour, for they perceived that he had told this parable against them, but they feared the people.

Title: A Question of Authority
Big Idea:

Prayer: 
> [!bible]+ [Psalm 118:1-9 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/19/118/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever! <sup> 2 </sup>Let Israel say, “His steadfast love endures forever.” <sup> 3 </sup>Let the house of Aaron say, “His steadfast love endures forever.” <sup> 4 </sup>Let those who fear the LORD say, “His steadfast love endures forever.” <sup> 5 </sup>Out of my distress I called on the LORD; the LORD answered me and set me free. <sup> 6 </sup>The LORD is on my side; I will not fear. What can man do to me? <sup> 7 </sup>The LORD is on my side as my helper; I shall look in triumph on those who hate me. <sup> 8 </sup>It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in man. <sup> 9 </sup>It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in princes.

# A Challenge 
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:1-8 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>One day, as Jesus  was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came up <sup> 2 </sup>and said to him, “Tell us by what authority you do these things, or who it is that gave you this authority.” <sup> 3 </sup>He answered them, “I also will ask you a question. Now tell me, <sup> 4 </sup>was the baptism of John from heaven or from man?” <sup> 5 </sup>And they discussed it with one another, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say, ‘Why did you not believe him?’ <sup> 6 </sup>But if we say, ‘From man,’ all the people will stone us to death, for they are convinced that John was a prophet.” <sup> 7 </sup>So they answered that they did not know where it came from. <sup> 8 </sup>And Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”

This is the pattern of Jesus' last week
He who asks the question is in charge.
This is not a simple question to answer
Observations:
- Who was in charge of this question? 
- He decided to answer with a question - kind of apart of the culture as that was what happened in the day
- Might not have been trying to get him now, but likely would be later on in the passage
- Jesus decided to answer in a way different from when it was asked

> [!bible]+ [Luke 3:19-23 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/3/)
>  <sup> 19 </sup>But Herod the tetrarch, who had been reproved by him for Herodias, his brother's wife, and for all the evil things that Herod had done, <sup> 20 </sup>added this to them all, that he locked up John in prison. <sup> 21 </sup>Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened, <sup> 22 </sup>and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form, like a dove; and a voice came from heaven, “You are my beloved Son;  with you I am well pleased.” <sup> 23 </sup>Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli,

Hard to speak truth when your version of the truth is not popular

# A Parable
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:9-18 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 9 </sup>And he began to tell the people this parable: “A man planted a vineyard and let it out to tenants and went into another country for a long while. <sup> 10 </sup>When the time came, he sent a servant  to the tenants, so that they would give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. But the tenants beat him and sent him away empty-handed. <sup> 11 </sup>And he sent another servant. But they also beat and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty-handed. <sup> 12 </sup>And he sent yet a third. This one also they wounded and cast out. <sup> 13 </sup>Then the owner of the vineyard said, ‘What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps they will respect him.’ <sup> 14 </sup>But when the tenants saw him, they said to themselves, ‘This is the heir. Let us kill him, so that the inheritance may be ours.’ <sup> 15 </sup>And they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then will the owner of the vineyard do to them? <sup> 16 </sup>He will come and destroy those tenants and give the vineyard to others.” When they heard this, they said, “Surely not!” <sup> 17 </sup>But he looked directly at them and said, “What then is this that is written:  “‘The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone’? <sup> 18 </sup>Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, and when it falls on anyone, it will crush him.”

- The parable was targeted at Jesus' opponents
- Answer not given until the end of the parable
- This is a picture of what God did to the prophets before the Messiah came
- Some accepted, some treated like the tenant in the parable
- It would have made more sense to the listeners by the end of the week
- It is a picture of God's patience with the people
- The vineyard keeper could have stopped, but kept sending one after another

> [!bible]+ [Romans 5:16 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/45/5/)
>  <sup> 16 </sup>And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift following many trespasses brought justification.

^ This was referencing Jesus
- We deserve God's judgement, but thanks to Christ, we are not killed by the keeper for disobeying
- When the keeper sent his son, the tenants killed him after recognizing who he is
- Why would they do this?
	- This could have only been since the owner was gone for a long while (v9)
- Jesus quoted scripture in his response

> [!bible]+ [Psalm 118:22 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/19/118/)
>  <sup> 22 </sup>The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone.

- This was a reference to a well-known event in Israel's history
	- References to Isaiah 8:14-15 and Daniel 2:45

> [!bible]+ [Isaiah 8:14-15 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/23/8/)
>  <sup> 14 </sup>And he will become a sanctuary and a stone of offense and a rock of stumbling to both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. <sup> 15 </sup>And many shall stumble on it. They shall fall and be broken; they shall be snared and taken.”

> [!bible]+ [Daniel 2:45 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/27/2/)
>  <sup> 45 </sup>just as you saw that a stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand, and that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold. A great God has made known to the king what shall be after this. The dream is certain, and its interpretation sure.”

- They knew that Jesus was leveling the spear of these passages against them
> [!bible]+ [Philippians 2:6-8 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/50/2/)
>  <sup> 6 </sup>who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, <sup> 7 </sup>but emptied himself, by taking the form of a servant,  being born in the likeness of men. <sup> 8 </sup>And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross.

- The scoffers at the time killed the son of the Vineyard Keeper, and got the punishment that was promised to them
# A Decision
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:19 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 19 </sup>The scribes and the chief priests sought to lay hands on him at that very hour, for they perceived that he had told this parable against them, but they feared the people.

- The truth does not depend upon popular opinion
	- The truth is the truth and 100% only
# Application
- View all of scripture as one story
- "Promises made" & "Promises kept"
- God worked through a particular people, the Jews
- But salvation is no longer limited to one people
> [!bible]+ [Acts 13:46-49 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/44/13/)
>  <sup> 46 </sup>And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, “It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you. Since you thrust it aside and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning to the Gentiles. <sup> 47 </sup>For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, “‘I have made you a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth.’” <sup> 48 </sup>And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. <sup> 49 </sup>And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region.

> [!bible]+ [Ephesians 2:11-16 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/49/2/)
>  <sup> 11 </sup>Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh, called “the uncircumcision” by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands — <sup> 12 </sup>remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. <sup> 13 </sup>But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. <sup> 14 </sup>For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility <sup> 15 </sup>by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace, <sup> 16 </sup>and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility.

