# Two Kingdoms
Pastor: #AlanBarbee
Title: Two Kingdoms?
Passage: #Luke

> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:20-26 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 20 </sup>So they watched him and sent spies, who pretended to be sincere, that they might catch him in something he said, so as to deliver him up to the authority and jurisdiction of the governor. <sup> 21 </sup>So they asked him, “Teacher, we know that you speak and teach rightly, and show no partiality,  but truly teach the way of God. <sup> 22 </sup>Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar, or not?” <sup> 23 </sup>But he perceived their craftiness, and said to them, <sup> 24 </sup>“Show me a denarius.  Whose likeness and inscription does it have?” They said, “Caesar's.” <sup> 25 </sup>He said to them, “Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.” <sup> 26 </sup>And they were not able in the presence of the people to catch him in what he said, but marveling at his answer they became silent.

Prayer: #Romans
> [!bible]+ [Romans 6:1-4 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/45/6/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? <sup> 2 </sup>By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? <sup> 3 </sup>Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? <sup> 4 </sup>We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.

Outline:
- The hypocrisy of the spies v20
- The real of the tricky question v21-22
- The surprising answer v23-25
- Response of the spies v26

"We honor ceaser and God, knowing that one kingdom is eternal and the other is not"

# The hypocrisy 20:20
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:20 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 20 </sup>So they watched him and sent spies, who pretended to be sincere, that they might catch him in something he said, so as to deliver him up to the authority and jurisdiction of the governor.

- The spies are actors playing a role, not being sincere
- To "watch closely" is to watch with evil intentions - Daniel 6
- These spies had to play a role as if in a play

# The Trap: 21-22
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:21-22 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 21 </sup>So they asked him, “Teacher, we know that you speak and teach rightly, and show no partiality,  but truly teach the way of God. <sup> 22 </sup>Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar, or not?”

- The spies used the right term in calling him Jesus
	- But they called him that with false respect
- "Liar, Lunatic, or Lord" - C.S. Lewis
	- Either he is the son of God, or he is a lunatic
- Only accept or reject Christ, no middle of the line
- Are they trying to appeal to his vanity?
- The "Way" Is proper Jewish theology, and a term used to describe Christians
> [!bible]+ [Acts 9:2 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/44/9/)
>  <sup> 2 </sup>and asked him for letters to the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to the Way, men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.

> [!bible]+ [Acts 19:9 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/44/19/)
>  <sup> 9 </sup>But when some became stubborn and continued in unbelief, speaking evil of the Way before the congregation, he withdrew from them and took the disciples with him, reasoning daily in the hall of Tyrannus.

- The term "lawful" implies movement
> [!bible]+ [Matthew 15:11 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/40/15/)
>  <sup> 11 </sup>it is not what goes into the mouth that defiles a person, but what comes out of the mouth; this defiles a person.”

- The idea of paying tribute to a foreign ruler is particularly troublesome to the Jew
	- Paid directly to Rome, it is seen as very hurtful to keep paying the upkeep of the subjugation from Rome
# The Answer: v23-25
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:23-25 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 23 </sup>But he perceived their craftiness, and said to them, <sup> 24 </sup>“Show me a denarius.  Whose likeness and inscription does it have?” They said, “Caesar's.” <sup> 25 </sup>He said to them, “Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.”

- Whose likeness is on the denarius?
	- Ceaser on one side, his mother on the other
- The key to understanding 20:25 is found in 20:24
	- "Likeness and inscription"
- All humans are made in the "image and like was of God"
> [!bible]+ [Genesis 1:26-27 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/1/1/)
>  <sup> 26 </sup>Then God said, “Let us make man  in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.” <sup> 27 </sup>So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him; male and female he created them.

- We are the coin, we are in the likeness of God
# The Response: 26
> [!bible]+ [Luke 20:26 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/42/20/)
>  <sup> 26 </sup>And they were not able in the presence of the people to catch him in what he said, but marveling at his answer they became silent.

- Once again, an attempt to trap Jesus has only embarrassed those who pursue him
- The keep trying to trap him in public, but they keep failing
# Applications
## Respect the two-kingdom approach
- Govt. has a right to exist.
- Understand difference between God's Authority, and the delegated authority of the state
- While both exist, they are not at all equal
Role of Government (Chuck Colson)
1. To restrain evil
2. To preserve order
3. To promote justice

- It is the nature of governments to expand their reach (Albert Mohler)
## Support Ceaser as long as he knows he is Only Ceaser
- In America, we value separation of church and state
- However, the problem is not that the church is trying to act like the state, but that the state is becoming overly religious
- The state does not have the authority to dictate who we will worship
> [!bible]+ [Daniel 6:10-14 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/27/6/)
>  <sup> 10 </sup>When Daniel knew that the document had been signed, he went to his house where he had windows in his upper chamber open toward Jerusalem. He got down on his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God, as he had done previously. <sup> 11 </sup>Then these men came by agreement and found Daniel making petition and plea before his God. <sup> 12 </sup>Then they came near and said before the king, concerning the injunction, “O king! Did you not sign an injunction, that anyone who makes petition to any god or man within thirty days except to you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions?” The king answered and said, “The thing stands fast, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be revoked.” <sup> 13 </sup>Then they answered and said before the king, “Daniel, who is one of the exiles from Judah, pays no attention to you, O king, or the injunction you have signed, but makes his petition three times a day.” <sup> 14 </sup>Then the king, when he heard these words, was much distressed and set his mind to deliver Daniel. And he labored till the sun went down to rescue him.
- Ceaser and Christ - Will Durant
How can the Church help the State? (Dietrich Bonhoeffer)
1. Church must help the State function in the way God ordained it should function
2. Church must look to aid the victims of state action
3. Church must take direct action to stop injustice of the state 
Romans 13 and 1 Tim. 2 further refine our relation to the state
1. We are subject to the governing authorities
2. We are to submit for the sake of conscience, not just to avoid God's wrath
3. We are to pray for those in authority over us
## Carry out our civic duties
Do we engage in civic disobedience
1. Are we willing to suffer for the sake of Jesus? - Acts 5:27-42
2. What kind of witness do we wish to give for Christ? - 1 Peter 2:11-17
3. Just because it is legal does not mean it's right - Daniel 3:17-18
- We live in a vulnerable time, it is not the times that make us vulnerable, but they do reveal our vulnerabilities
