Title: Missions Sunday: God's Heart for the Nations

Prayer
> [!bible]+ [Romans 1:1-15 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/45/1/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Paul, a servant  of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God, <sup> 2 </sup>which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the holy Scriptures, <sup> 3 </sup>concerning his Son, who was descended from David  according to the flesh <sup> 4 </sup>and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord, <sup> 5 </sup>through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, <sup> 6 </sup>including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ, <sup> 7 </sup>To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <sup> 8 </sup>First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. <sup> 9 </sup>For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I mention you <sup> 10 </sup>always in my prayers, asking that somehow by God's will I may now at last succeed in coming to you. <sup> 11 </sup>For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you — <sup> 12 </sup>that is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine. <sup> 13 </sup>I do not want you to be unaware, brothers,  that I have often intended to come to you (but thus far have been prevented), in order that I may reap some harvest among you as well as among the rest of the Gentiles. <sup> 14 </sup>I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians,  both to the wise and to the foolish. <sup> 15 </sup>So I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome.


# God's heart for the Nations
Human's heart is different from God's heart
> [!bible]+ [Genesis 11:4 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/1/11/)
>  <sup> 4 </sup>Then they said, “Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower with its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth.”

God's heart
> [!bible]+ [Genesis 12:1-3 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/1/12/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Now the LORD said  to Abram, “Go from your country  and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. <sup> 2 </sup>And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. <sup> 3 </sup>I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.”

Prophesies 
> [!bible]+ [Isaiah 42:1 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/23/42/)
>  <sup> 1 </sup>Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights; I have put my Spirit upon him; he will bring forth justice to the nations.

> [!bible]+ [Isaiah 49:5-6 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/23/49/)
>  <sup> 5 </sup>And now the LORD says, he who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to him; and that Israel might be gathered to him — for I am honored in the eyes of the LORD, and my God has become my strength — <sup> 6 </sup>he says: “It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel; I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth.”

Coming of Jesus fulfills this:
> [!bible]+ [Galatians 4:4-5 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/48/4/)
>  <sup> 4 </sup>But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law, <sup> 5 </sup>to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons.

When Jesus leaves, he leaves us instructions
> [!bible]+ [Acts 1:6-8 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/44/1/)
>  <sup> 6 </sup>So when they had come together, they asked him, “Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?” <sup> 7 </sup>He said to them,  “It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. <sup> 8 </sup>But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.”

A glimpse of where Humanity is headed, and where we are going
> [!bible]+ [Revelation 7:9-10 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/66/7/)
>  <sup> 9 </sup>After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, <sup> 10 </sup>and crying out with a loud voice, “Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!”

God wants all people to know him
> [!bible]+ [1 Timothy 2:4 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/54/2/)
>  <sup> 4 </sup>who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.

God has chosen us to carry out his heart for the Nations
> [!bible]+ [2 Corinthians 5:17-20 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/47/5/)
>  <sup> 17 </sup>Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation.  The old has passed away; behold, the new has come. <sup> 18 </sup>All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation; <sup> 19 </sup>that is, in Christ God was reconciling  the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. <sup> 20 </sup>Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God.

> [!bible]+ [Matthew 28:18-20 - ESV](https://bolls.life/ESV/40/28/)
>  <sup> 18 </sup>And Jesus came and said to them,  “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. <sup> 19 </sup>Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in  the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, <sup> 20 </sup>teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”

# How do we do this?
- Praying
- Going
- 