1) Discuss the concept of ‘Rethinking Data’.

Overall, data has become something that is continuously generated from everything, instead of being expensive. Challenge of the data is turning it into valuable information, instead of just storing and managing the data. As well, data has turned into a key intangible asset for value creation of the company, instead of just being used for optimizing processes.

2) Discuss the concept of ‘Data as Intangible Asset’.

Data has become something that is meant to be captured, instead of just being something that was mostly discarded. Now there are loyalty programs for building assets out of customer data, and it allows companies to tailor products and advertisements to those specific customers.

3) Why does ‘Every Business Need a Data Strategy’?

Every business needs a data strategy due to the fact that companies need to gather the diverse data types, and use data as a predictive layer in decision making. This allows the company to apply data to new product innovation.

4) What is ‘The Impact of Big Data’?

With all the unstructured data that is a part of big data, there is lots of information that is recorded, but does not fit easily into neat forms. One of the biggest sources of unstructured data is social media, since it creates so much data almost instantaneously.

5) What are the myths of Big Data?

Some of the myths is that the algorithm will figure it out, instead of being generated by human analyists. Another myth is that Correlation is all that matters, which means that managers should understand the difference between simple correlation and causation in the data set. The last myth is that all good data is big data, which is not always true.

6) Where do we ‘Find the Data We Need’?

Some of the ways that we find the data that we need is: Customer data exchanges, lead users, supply chain partners, public data sets, and purchase/exchange agreements.

7) How do we ‘Turn Customer Data into Business Value’?

Some of the ways that we turn customer data into business value is through:

- Insights: Revealing invisible relationships, patterns, and influences, customer data can provide immense value for the company
    
- Targeting: Companies can narrow the field of possible audiences and identifying who is most relevant to your business, customer data can help drive greater results from ever interaction with customers
    
- Personalization: Companies can tailor their product to be more specialized for the customer, so as to fit to what exactly they need
    
- Context: Put data in the context of the customer to illustrate how one customer’s actions or outcomes stack up against those of a broader population
    

8) Discuss ‘The Data Value Generator’ tool.

The data value generator tool is in 5 parts: Area of impact and key performance indicators, value template selection, concept generation, data audit and execution plan

9) Which are the ‘Four Templates for Value Creation’?

The 4 templates for value creation are: Insight, Targeting, Personalization and Context

10)What are the ‘Organizational Challenges of Data’?

Some of the organizational challenges of data/big data is:

- Embedding data skill sets: Find people for the right job at each stage of data parsing and understand, such as data scientists
    
- Bridging silos: Bring all the data together in a unified way for the company
    
- Sharing data with partners: Work together with other business partners to share data to better supplement your customers
    
- Cybersecurity, Privacy, and Consumer Attitudes: Part of working with the data that you have is to ensure that customer data is better taken care of, and is never in risk of being leaked