Last lecture
1. Now done with every quiz
	1. Be sure lowest grade was dropped
2. Course evals, get them done
3. Student exit survey
	1. Done December 3rd

# Learning Organization
- To enhance a firm's long term viability, they need to build a learning org
	- Capable of adapting to change
	- Able to foster creativity
	- Willing to question orgs
## Successful Learning Orgs Motivate People
- Create a proactive, creative approach to the unknown
- Ethics has everything to do with leadership
# Final Topics
- Looking at chapter 7
	- Michael porter's diamond framework, what is in the diamond? What are the pieces of that
	- What is reverse innovation?
	- Global expansion, what are the sources of political risk?
	- What are the limitations of a global strategy?
- Going to chapter 8
	- Competitive dynamics, forbearance, what is it? Why is it important?
	- When it comes to those starting entrepreneurial journey, where are they getting funds from?
	- Should know about entry strategies, differences innovative vs adaptive vs the 3rd one?
	- What is a focus strategy?
	- If we are given strategic vs tactical actions, can you tell which one is tactical?
	- Know about CEO compensation, spec agency theory, and why the compensation is tied to stockholder objectives
- Chapter 10
	- What is a matrix structure?
		- What are the advantages of?
	- When it comes to counterpart, functional structure, where are they found in organizations?
	- What is expert power?
	- What is coercive power? Informational power?
	- What is emotional intelligence? Potential pitfalls of EI?
- Integrity based approach to ethics
	- Who creates it?
	- Why is it important?
	- What it does?